### Does Health Insurance Type Lead To Opioid Addiction?

Micah Reid, Filipe Borba

The rate of opioid addiction has escalated into a crisis in recent years. [Studies have linked health insurance with prescription painkiller overuse](https://www.jhsph.edu/news/news-releases/2018/health-insurance-plans-may-be-fueling-opioid-epidemic.html), but little has been done to investigate differences tied to type of health insurance. This is a pertinent variable to compare across, because health insurance type is linked to factors like socioeconomic status, disability, and access to care. We used data from the National Survey on Drug Use and Health from the year 2017 single out variations in drug use and abuse prevalence and duration across these groups. We found that while those with private health insurance were more likely to have used opioids than those with Medicaid/CHIP or no health insurance (57.3% compared to 45% and 47.4%, respectively), those with Medicaid/CHIP or no health insurance were more likely to have abused opioids when controlling for those who have ever taken opioids (24.6% and 27.2% versus 17.6%, respectively). Those with private health insurance were also more likely to have used opioids in the past, while those with Medicaid/CHIP or no health insurance were more likely to have continued their use. TOO MANY STATS FOR THIS TO CHOOSE FROM! This suggests that even though those with private health insurance are more likely to use opioids, those without are more likely to continue use and begin misuse once started on opiates. IS THIS GETTING TOO WORDY? ALSO DOES THIS NEED ANY ANALYSIS OR PREDICTION? [Read more](report2.md) REMEMBER TO CHANGE LINK WHEN DRAFT TRANSFERRED!
